Add notes from 2022-08 (#59)
python/docs-community: docs/monthly-meeting/2022-08.md

# Documentation Community Team Meeting (August 2022)

- **Date:** 2022-08-01
- **Time:** [21:00 UTC]<!--(https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2022-08-01/21:00/Docs%20Meeting)-->
- **This HackMD:** https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1

> - **Discourse thread:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Discourse thread:** https://discuss.python.org/t/documentation-community-meeting-august-1/17847
```

- **Calendar for future meetings:** (send your e-mail to Mariatta for a calendar invitation)
- **How to participate:**
  -  Go to [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/dii-qrzf-wkw) and ask to be let in.

>   -  XXX how to edit the hackMD doc

Reviewer: This is covered a couple of sections below.

>   -  XXX how to edit the hackMD doc

Author: ```suggestion
```
Yup, and I copied it to the hackmd doc.

By participating in this meeting, you are agreeing to abide by and uphold the [PSF Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/).
Please take a second to read through it!

## Roll call

- Mariatta / `@Mariatta`
- Petr Viktorin / `@encukou`
- Hugo van Kemenade / `@hugovk`
- Ned Batchelder / `@nedbat`
- Ezio Melotti / `@ezio-melotti`
- CAM Gerlach / `@CAM-Gerlach`

> - Jim DeLaHunt / @JDLH

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Jim DeLaHunt / `@JDLH`
```

- Daniele Procida
- Pradyun Gedam
- Erlend Aasland / `@erlend-aasland`

## Discussion

> ### How to edit hackmd doc?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### How to edit HackMD doc?
```

> - Login (with GitHub or something)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Log in (with GitHub or something)
```

- Then use the pencil button at the top of the page

### Diataxis Workshop

> - 70 ppl signed up, ~35 are accepted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- 70 ppl signed up, ≈35 are accepted.
```

I assume you mean approximately, not proportionally here

Reviewer 4: ~ stands for "around" here.

Reviewer 3: For some historical background, `≈` is the [approximate symbol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Approximation#Typography); `~` (tilde) was originally intended and used as a diacritic intended for overprinting over other letters for non-Latin characters, but historically was used informally for (among other purposes) an approximation (heh) of the actual approximate symbol before Unicode existed. And of course, when writing shorthand notes, its faster to type than an alt/option code.

Reviewer 2: I never knew ~ can mean proportionally, but it's widely understood as around/about/approximately, let's keep it simple :)

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tilde#Common_use_in_English

≈ seems more of a mathematical thing.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Approximation#Typography

Author: I don't think I've ever seen ≈ used as a unary operator.
In formal writing this would be spelled out, in a proper mathematics text the operator would be defined. But these are shorthand notes.

Author: ≈ is unusual and thus slightly harder to read for me personally (though I can type it just fine), and the suggestion is a “tiny nitpick” in notes, so I'll take the liberty to merge without it.
But feel free to continue the discussion if you want.

- Could let a few more ppl in, but it's probably best to repeat sometime later.
- Thanks Mariatta, Ned & CAM.

### New Python Docs theme

- Pradyun talks about Lutra, a new theme for "big" docs. (Pradyun's existing theme, Furo, is for "smaller docs" -- it puts everything in the sidebar)
    -  Can we see the sample?
    -  https://pradyunsg-cpython-lutra-testing.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
    -  CAM: How's this different from Furo?
        -  1. Didn't want to do too many things with Furo -- it does what it does well
        -  2. Freedom from backwards compatibility concerns
    -  Mariatta: Can it handle CPython docs build process?
        -  Pradyun is looking into the docs-build script
    -  Daniele: You showed us two different modes of Lutra
        -  Pradyun: there are 5 modes. Configured in conf.py
    -  Ned: the different modes seem complicated, when Python docs will use just one mode
    -  Pradyun: I imagine python-docs-theme will customize this further, e.g. use the python.org header

>     -  Daniele: furo works for smaller sites, but its navigation model it does best and powerful, allowing the user to internalize the information architecture. In Lutra's mode, which one also prioritize docs architecture within its navigation model?

Reviewer: Something wrong with this sentence.

>     -  Daniele: furo works for smaller sites, but its navigation model it does best and powerful, allowing the user to internalize the information architecture. In Lutra's mode, which one also prioritize docs architecture within its navigation model?

Author: ```suggestion
    -  Daniele: furo works for smaller sites, but its navigation model is powerful, allowing the user to internalize the information architecture. In Lutra's mode, which one also prioritize docs architecture within its navigation model?
```

        -  Pradyun: all of them, just exposed in slightly different ways.

>     -  CAM: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
(unless @CAM-Gerlach remember what he said)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    -  CAM: Enabling and following a model that more closely matches the existing structure of the Python Docs (at least initially), even if it isn't ideal, is important for ensuring acceptance of the new theme and reducing friction to an acceptable level given how much this is already changing.
```

    -  Ned: what's the plan here? Pradyun will write a doc, etc
        -  Pradyun: working on it, hopefully this weekend
    -  Petr: Who will write a PEP?
    -  Ned: Why do we need a PEP?

>     -  Daniele: when it comes to adopting diataxis, but it's a decision that should be taken after the workshops. After the workshops people will have cleaerer idea and implications of what it will mean for the docs. If there is a stron consensus, that's when we should work that decision into a PEP. It needs to be really understood by the people aking small changes. The PEP of styling is the same.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    -  Daniele: when it comes to adopting diataxis, but it's a decision that should be taken after the workshops. After the workshops people will have clearer idea and implications of what it will mean for the docs. If there is a strong consensus, that's when we should work that decision into a PEP. It needs to be really understood by the people making small changes. The PEP of styling is the same.
```

>     -  Petr: Diataxis is more about direction, should ne more of a Discourse discussion other than a PEP

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    -  Petr: Diataxis is more about direction, should be more of a Discourse discussion other than a PEP
```

    -  Ned: How much decision-making we need ahead of time before starting working with Diataxis.  

>     -  Petr: the purpose of the PEP is to make sure you consider everything about the problem, make sure everybody that should be heaard is heard, make sure everything is documented. If you can get to that goal some other wau, then we don't need a PEP.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    -  Petr: the purpose of the PEP is to make sure you consider everything about the problem, make sure everybody that should be heard is heard, make sure everything is documented. If you can get to that goal some other way, then we don't need a PEP.
```

>     -  Daniele: it's like a deciding: Are we going to climb up that mountain? Which mointain? Once we decided on which mointtain, we better make sure we're equipped for that, we don't need all the plans, but still need agreement.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    -  Daniele: it's like a deciding: Are we going to climb up that mountain? Which mountain? Once we decided on which mountain, we better make sure we're equipped for that, we don't need all the plans, but still need agreement.
```

    -  Ned: What are we writing in this PEP? It can be just one paragraph, or 10 pages.

>     -  Petr: There is a PEP template (PEP 12). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    -  Petr: There is a PEP template ([PEP 12](https://peps.python.org/pep-0012/)). 
```

    -  Ned: How is a PEP ... ?
    -  Daniele: We need to have a clear picture of where we want to go.
    -  Petr: let's leave this for after the workshop

>     -  Pradyun: PEP is our tool for consensu building.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    -  Pradyun: PEP is our tool for consensus building.
```

>     -  Hugo: With PEP 676: work was done ahead before the PEP, and we didn't really know who was going to make the decision of it, and after the PEP there was more clarity of who makes the decision. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    -  Hugo: With [PEP 676](https://peps.python.org/pep-0676/): work was done ahead before the PEP, and we didn't really know who was going to make the decision of it, and after the PEP there was more clarity of who makes the decision. 
```
